# Idura.FSharp.Analyzers

A set of [F# analyzers](https://ionide.io/FSharp.Analyzers.SDK/) which warn against code issues previously encountered by Idura.

## Build
You should be able to build the project by simply running `dotnet build`.

## Test
You can test the analyzers by running `dotnet test`.

The test suite works by running each analyzer on a number of test programs.
There are two kinds of tests for the analyzers: positive and negative.

Positive tests check that the analyzer reports issues correctly when presented with a faulty program.
Positive tests run the analyzer on each test program and record the messages generated by the analyzer.
They then check that there is at least one message, and compare the generated messages with a snapshot to check that the analyzer does not change its behavior unintentionally.
If the snapshot does not match, the test suite will fail and generate a `__mismatch__` directory containing the new messages so you can compare them with the snapshots while debugging your code.
If you are intentionally changing the behaviour of an analyzer and want to update the snapshots to reflect this, overwrite the old snapshots with the new snapshots generated in the `__mismatch__` directory after running the test suite.

Negative tests check that the analyzer does not report issues on correct programs.
Negative tests run the analyzer on each test program and check that the analyzer does not produce any messages.

## Usage
Run `dotnet pack --configuration Release` to generate a NuGet package (in the `bin/Release` directory).
You can then use the NuGet package like any other F# analyzer.

## Development

### FSharp.Tree.Viewer
The `FSharp.Tree.Viewer` project contains a small command-line utility which allows you to view the syntax tree and typed declarations as parsed by the F# compiler.
This can be useful to figure out what to look for when traversing the abstract syntax tree to find a specific construct.
From the `src/FSharp.Tree.Viewer` directory, the tool can be run with e.g. `dotnet run -- Program.fs`.
Run `dotnet run -- Program.fs -- --help` to get an overview of the options.

## Analyzers

### Missing type annotations in XUnit InlineData argument
Xunit only supports literals in `InlineData`.
If you provide a non-literal type as input to an `InlineData` test, the test will silently be skipped by Xunit.
This can cause surprising behavior when refactoring tests and accidentally changing test input to a non-literal.
This can be somewhat mitigated by annotating the types of all input parameters supplied via `InlineData`.

This analyzer detects missing type annotations in parameters supplied via `InlineData`.

| About this analyzer |                                                                                       |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Code                | `IDURA-XUNIT-001`                                                                     |
| Message             | Arguments with data supplied via the InlineData annotation must have type annotations |
| Severity            | Warning                                                                               |
| Works in            | CLI, Ionide                                                                           |

### Missing unit argument in XUnit Fact tests
XUnit will silently skip any tests tagged with the Fact attribute if they don't have a unit argument.
This is an easy way to accidentally disable a test, and it is also easy to forget to add the unit argument.

This analyzer detects missing unit arguments in functions that have the Fact attribute.

| About this analyzer |                                                                                                                          |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Code                | `IDURA-XUNIT-002`                                                                                                        |
| Message             | Test functions tagged with the XUnit [Fact] attribute must have a unit argument or the test runner will not execute them |
| Severity            | Warning                                                                                                                  |
| Works in            | CLI, Ionide                                                                                                              |
